docs/usage.rst, before:

.. _usage:

=====
Usage
=====

Command-Line Arguments
----------------------

.. argparse::
   :ref: nibetaseries.cli.run.get_parser
   :prog: nibs
   :nodefault:
   :nodefaultconst:

Example Call(s)
---------------

If you want to see a full example on preparing data and running ``nibs``, see:
:ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_plot_run_nibetaseries.py`.

Example 1
~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

    nibs \
    /home/james/bids/ \
    fmriprep \
    /home/james/bids/derivatives/betaSeries/schaefer_parcel-400_network-17 \
    participant
    -a /home/james/bids/derivatives/atlas/Schaefer2018_400Parcels_17Networks_order_FSLMNI152_2mm.nii.gz \
    -l /home/james/bids/derivatives/atlas/schaefer_parcel-400_network-17.tsv \
    -w /home/james/bids/derivatives/betaSeries/work_n17 \
    -c WhiteMatter CSF Cosine01 Cosine02 Cosine03 Cosine04 Cosine05 Cosine06 Cosine07 \
    --nthreads 32 \
    --variant AROMAnonaggr \
    --hrf-model 'glover + derivative + dispersion'

In this example we have our top-level BIDS directory ``/home/james/bids``,
and our derivatives directory ``/home/james/bids/derivatives``.
``nibs`` currently assumes that ``derivatives`` is immediately underneath
the top-level BIDS directory.

- The 1st positional argument is the BIDS directory (``/home/james/bids``)
- The 2nd positional argument is the derivatives pipeline that was used
  to preprocess your data.
  In this case we are using ``fmriprep``.
- The 3rd positional argument determines where the desired output of ``nibs``
  should go. These are the output files you will use later on for analysis.
  Here, the directory is:
  ``/home/james/bids/derivatives/betaSeries/schaefer_parcel-400_network-17``
- The 4th positional argument specifies whether we are running participant-
  or group-level analyses; since group-level analyses are not yet implemented,
  ``participant`` is the only option.
- Within the derivatives directory, we have the atlas (``-a``) and
  lookup table (``-l``) in an atlas directory.
  The atlas is in MNI space and the look up table has a row per unique parcel
  in the atlas.
- The work directory (``-w``) specifies where all the intermediate outputs
  go; these are useful for making sure ``nibs`` ran correctly,
  but are not necessary to keep after you are reasonably confident
  ``nibs`` worked as expected.
- The confounds (``-c``) we select are column names from the ``*_confounds.tsv`` file.
  See the `fmriprep documentation
  <https://fmriprep.readthedocs.io/en/stable/outputs.html#confounds>`_ on confounds for details.
- ``--nthreads`` tells us across how many thread to parallelize ``nibs``; in this
  example we use 32 threads!
- If there were multiple types of derivatives output from a preprocessing
  application (like ``fmriprep``), you may only be interested in analyzing
  one variant; in this scenerio, we are only interested in analyzing images denoised
  by ``ICA-AROMA``.
- The HRF model argument (``--hrf-model``) passes all the available options
  from `nistats <https://nistats.github.io/index.html>`_.

Commit message:

[ENH,FIX] refactor bids file processing (#193)
* bump pybids version to 0.9.3

* update tests with valid names

* add patterns for building bids files

* add data files to package

* switch variant -> desc and remove extraneous directory

* refactor bids interface

* rename betaseries file output

* make filenames more systematic and bidsy

* refactor data collection wrt pybids 0.9.3

* remove _rename_matrix from analysis.py

* - refactor layout wrt 0.9.3
  - change variant-> description
  - add betaseries to output node
  - update datasink references

* fix grammer (e.g. ..) -> (e.g., ...)

* change variant -> desc in usage documentation

* update notebook with bids refactor

* refactor/add tests wrt pybids 0.9.3

* change how to read in local json files

* pacify flake8 for bids.py

* coerce sub_metadata as a string

* fix documentation/update docs for beta series images being passed out

* - update code example
  - fix some grammar
  - make headings consistently spaced

docs/usage.rst, after:

.. _usage:

=====
Usage
=====

Command-Line Arguments
----------------------

.. argparse::
   :ref: nibetaseries.cli.run.get_parser
   :prog: nibs
   :nodefault:
   :nodefaultconst:

Example Call(s)
---------------

If you want to see a full example on preparing data and running ``nibs``, see:
:ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_plot_run_nibetaseries.py`.

Example 1
~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

    nibs \
    /home/james/bids/ \
    fmriprep \
    /home/james/bids/derivatives/betaSeries/schaefer_parcel-400_network-17 \
    participant
    -a /home/james/bids/derivatives/atlas/Schaefer2018_400Parcels_17Networks_order_FSLMNI152_2mm.nii.gz \
    -l /home/james/bids/derivatives/atlas/schaefer_parcel-400_network-17.tsv \
    -w /home/james/bids/derivatives/betaSeries/work_n17 \
    -c WhiteMatter CSF Cosine01 Cosine02 Cosine03 Cosine04 Cosine05 Cosine06 Cosine07 \
    --nthreads 32 \
    --description-label AROMAnonaggr \
    --hrf-model 'glover + derivative + dispersion'

In this example we have our top-level BIDS directory ``/home/james/bids``,
and our derivatives directory ``/home/james/bids/derivatives``.
``nibs`` currently assumes that ``derivatives`` is immediately underneath
the top-level BIDS directory.

- The 1st positional argument is the BIDS directory (``/home/james/bids``)
- The 2nd positional argument is the derivatives pipeline that was used
  to preprocess your data.
  In this case we are using ``fmriprep``.
- The 3rd positional argument determines where the desired output of ``nibs``
  should go. These are the output files you will use later on for analysis.
  Here, the directory is:
  ``/home/james/bids/derivatives/betaSeries/schaefer_parcel-400_network-17``
- The 4th positional argument specifies whether we are running participant-
  or group-level analyses; since group-level analyses are not yet implemented,
  ``participant`` is the only option.
- Within the derivatives directory, we have the atlas (``-a``) and
  lookup table (``-l``) in an atlas directory.
  The atlas is in MNI space and the look up table has a row per unique parcel
  in the atlas.
- The work directory (``-w``) specifies where all the intermediate outputs
  go; these are useful for making sure ``nibs`` ran correctly,
  but are not necessary to keep after you are reasonably confident
  ``nibs`` worked as expected.
- The confounds (``-c``) we select are column names from the ``*_confounds.tsv`` file.
  See the `fmriprep documentation
  <https://fmriprep.readthedocs.io/en/stable/outputs.html#confounds>`_ on confounds for details.
- ``--nthreads`` tells us across how many thread to parallelize ``nibs``; in this
  example we use 32 threads!
- If there were multiple types of derivatives output from a preprocessing
  application (like ``fmriprep``), you may only be interested in analyzing
  one variant; in this scenerio, we are only interested in analyzing images denoised
  by ``ICA-AROMA``, denoted by ``--description-label``.
- The HRF model argument (``--hrf-model``) passes all the available options
  from `nistats <https://nistats.github.io/index.html>`_.
